README.md, before:

# WP-PageNavi
Contributors: GamerZ, scribu  
Donate link: http://lesterchan.net/site/donation/  
Tags: navigation, pagination, paging, pages  
Requires at least: 3.2  
Tested up to: 4.4  
Stable tag: 2.89.1  
License: GPLv2 or later  
License URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html  

Adds a more advanced paging navigation interface.

## Description
Want to replace the old *&larr; Older posts | Newer posts &rarr;* links with some page links?

This plugin provides the `wp_pagenavi()` template tag which generates fancy pagination links. See the [installation instructions](http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wp-pagenavi/installation/) for using it in your theme.

Help to translate at <https://translate.foe-services.de/projects/wp-pagenavi>.

### Build Status
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi)

### Development
* [https://github.com/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi](https://github.com/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi "https://github.com/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi")

### Credits
* Plugin icon by [SimpleIcon](http://www.simpleicon.com) from [Flaticon](http://www.flaticon.com)

### Donations
I spent most of my free time creating, updating, maintaining and supporting these plugins, if you really love my plugins and could spare me a couple of bucks, I will really appreciate it. If not feel free to use it without any obligations.

## Installation

You can either install it automatically from the WordPress admin, or do it manually:

1. Unzip the archive and put the `wp-pagenavi` folder into your plugins folder (/wp-content/plugins/).
1. Activate the plugin from the Plugins menu.

### Usage

In your theme, you need to find calls to next_posts_link() and previous_posts_link() and replace them.

In the Twentyten theme, it looks like this:

`<div class="nav-previous"><?php next_posts_link( __( '<span class="meta-nav">&larr;</span> Older posts', 'twentyten' ) ); ?></div>`
`<div class="nav-next"><?php previous_posts_link( __( 'Newer posts <span class="meta-nav">&rarr;</span>', 'twentyten' ) ); ?></div>`


You would replace those two lines with this:

`<?php wp_pagenavi(); ?>`

For multipart pages, you would look for code like this:

`<?php wp_link_pages( ... ); ?>`

and replace it with this:

`<?php wp_pagenavi( array( 'type' => 'multipart' ) ); ?>`

Go to *WP-Admin -> Settings -> PageNavi* for configuration.

### Changing the CSS

If you need to configure the CSS style of WP-PageNavi, you can copy the `pagenavi-css.css` file from the plugin directory to your theme's directory and make your modifications there. This way, you won't lose your changes when you update the plugin.

Alternatively, you can uncheck the "Use pagenavi.css?" option from the settings page and add the styles to your theme's style.css file directly.

### Changing Class Names

There are [filters](http://codex.wordpress.org/Glossary#Filter) that can be used to change the default class names that are assigned to page navigation elements.

#### Filters

* `wp_pagenavi_class_pages`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_first`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_previouspostslink`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_extend`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_smaller`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_page`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_current`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_larger`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_nextpostslink`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_last`

#### Filter Usage

`
// Simple Usage - 1 callback per filter
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_previouspostslink', 'theme_pagination_previouspostslink_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_nextpostslink', 'theme_pagination_nextpostslink_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_page', 'theme_pagination_page_class');

function theme_pagination_previouspostslink_class($class_name) {
  return 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--previous';
}

function theme_pagination_nextpostslink_class($class_name) {
  return 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--next';
}

function theme_pagination_page_class($class_name) {
  return 'pagination__current-page';
}


// More Concise Usage - 1 callback for all filters
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_previouspostslink', 'theme_pagination_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_nextpostslink', 'theme_pagination_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_page', 'theme_pagination_class');

function theme_pagination_class($class_name) {
  switch($class_name) {
    case 'previouspostslink':
      $class_name = 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--previous';
      break;
    case 'nextpostslink':
      $class_name = 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--next';
      break;
    case 'page':
      $class_name = 'pagination__current'
      break;
  }
  return $class_name;
}
`

## Screenshots

1. With Custom Styling
2. Admin - Options Page

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Error on activation: "Parse error: syntax error, unexpected..."

Make sure your host is running PHP 5. The only foolproof way to do this is to add this line to wp-config.php (after the opening `<?php` tag):

`var_dump(PHP_VERSION);`
<br>

### When I go to page 2, I see the same posts as on page 1!

You're using `query_posts()` wrong. See [The Right Way To use query_posts()](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/right-way-to-use-query_posts.html)

### Does PageNavi work with secondary WP_Query instances?

Yes; read [this tutorial](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wpn-2-74.html)

### How do I ignore the options page?

If you are running a multi-language plugin, you will probably want to ignore the strings in the options page.

You can do that like so:

`<?php wp_pagenavi( array( 'options' => PageNavi_Core::$options->get_defaults() ) ); ?>`

## Changelog
### 2.89.1
* FIXED: before and after args

### 2.89
* NEW: wrapper_tag option to allow other HTML tag besides DIV and wrapper_class option to allow other class name besides wp-pagenavi. Props @Mahjouba91.

### 2.88
* NEW: Added filters for altering class names. Props @bookwyrm

### 2.87
* NEW: Uses WordPress native uninstall.php

### 2.86
* NEW: Bump to 4.0
* NEW: Added rel=next and rel=previous

### 2.85
* FIXED: "Use pagenavi-css.css" & "Always Show Page Navigation" in the options are not being saved

### 2.84
* FIXED: Updated scb framework to fix scbAdminPage incompatible error

### 2.83
* added 'echo' parameter
* added Estonian and Bengali translations
* updated scbFramework

### 2.82
* fixed prev/next links not appearing in some conditions
* added Hebrew, Georgian and Azerbaijani translations
* updated scbFramework

### 2.81
* require an explicit type; fixes bugs with multipart pages

### 2.80
* support for multi-part pages and user queries
* moved prev/next links before/after first/last links
* [more info](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wpn-2-80.html)

### 2.74 (2011-02-17)
* added 'smaller' and 'larger' classes
* added $query arg to wp_pagenavi()
* updated translations
* [more info](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wpn-2-74.html)

### 2.73 (2010-08-17)
* added $options arg to wp_pagenavi()
* updated scbFramework
* 3 new translations: AL, JA, BR

### 2.72 (2010-04-19)
* fixed first link

### 2.71 (2010-04-18)
* remove conflicting .left and .right from .extend elements
* bundle language files

### 2.70 (2010-04-11)
* better default CSS
* fixed issue with slashed quotes in settings
* let WordPress handle uninstallation
* [more info](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wp-2-70.html)

### 2.61 (2010-02-07)
* fixed: memory limit error

### 2.60 (2010-02-07)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.9
* new: Added "previouspostslink" and "nextpostslink" CSS classes for styling next/previous posts link by Joost de Valk
* new: Added option to include pagenavi-css.css In WP-Admin -> Settings -> PageNavi
* fixed: check for pagenavi-css.css in the child theme, first
* fixed: cleaner options page

### 2.50 (2009-06-01)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.8
* new: Added Larger Page Number Pagination
* new: Added "first", "page" and "last" CSS Name To Link
* fixed: Removed "&#8201;" Entity
* fixed: Uses $_SERVER['PHP_SELF'] With plugin_basename(__FILE__) Instead Of Just $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']

### 2.40 (2008-12-12)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.7 Only
* new: Right To Left Language Support by Kambiz R. Khojasteh
* new: Called pagenavi_textdomain() In pagenavi_init() by Kambiz R. Khojasteh

### 2.31 (2008-07-16)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.6

### 2.30 (2008-06-01)
* new: WP-PageNavi Will Load 'pagenavi-css.css' Inside Your Theme Directory If It Exists. If Not, It Will Just Load The Default 'pagenavi-css.css' By WP-PageNavi
* new: Uses /wp-pagenavi/ Folder Instead Of /pagenavi/
* new: Uses wp-pagenavi.php Instead Of pagenavi.php
* new: Added "wp-pagenavi a:visited" Style In pagenavi-css.css
* new: Added $before And $after Function Arguments To wp_pagenavi();
* fixed: Rearranged CSS Classes In pagenavi-css.css
* fixed: "First" Text Does Not Always Appear If Page 1 Is Not Shown

### 2.20 (2007-10-01)
* new: Supports query_posts(); Variables
* new: Ability To Uninstall WP-PageNavi

### 2.11 (2007-06-01)
* new: Page Navigation Now Is Customizable Via 'WP-Admin -> Options -> PageNavi' And pagenavi-css.css
* new: Default Style Navigation Is Now Boxed Navigation (Similar To Digg.com)
* fixed: Fix For Ultimate Tag Warrior By Oliver Kastler & Stephan (Netconcepts)

### 2.10 (2007-02-01)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.1 Only
* new: Move pagenavi.php To pagenavi Folder

### 2.03 (2006-10-01)
* fixed: Now Compatible With WordPress 2.1

### 2.02 (2006-06-01)
* new: Added Drop Down Menu Style Of Page Navigation

### 2.01 (2006-03-01)
* fixed: Paging Show If There Is Only 1 Page

### 2.00 (2006-01-01)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.0
* fixed: Space Issues

Commit message:

Version 2.90: Remove po/mo files from the plugin and use translate.wordpress.org to translate the plugin.

README.md, after:

# WP-PageNavi
Contributors: GamerZ, scribu  
Donate link: http://lesterchan.net/site/donation/  
Tags: navigation, pagination, paging, pages  
Requires at least: 3.2  
Tested up to: 4.4  
Stable tag: 2.90
License: GPLv2 or later  
License URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html  

Adds a more advanced paging navigation interface.

## Description
Want to replace the old *&larr; Older posts | Newer posts &rarr;* links with some page links?

This plugin provides the `wp_pagenavi()` template tag which generates fancy pagination links. See the [installation instructions](http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wp-pagenavi/installation/) for using it in your theme.

Help to translate at <https://translate.foe-services.de/projects/wp-pagenavi>.

### Build Status
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi)

### Development
* [https://github.com/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi](https://github.com/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi "https://github.com/lesterchan/wp-pagenavi")

### Credits
* Plugin icon by [SimpleIcon](http://www.simpleicon.com) from [Flaticon](http://www.flaticon.com)

### Donations
I spent most of my free time creating, updating, maintaining and supporting these plugins, if you really love my plugins and could spare me a couple of bucks, I will really appreciate it. If not feel free to use it without any obligations.

## Installation

You can either install it automatically from the WordPress admin, or do it manually:

1. Unzip the archive and put the `wp-pagenavi` folder into your plugins folder (/wp-content/plugins/).
1. Activate the plugin from the Plugins menu.

### Usage

In your theme, you need to find calls to next_posts_link() and previous_posts_link() and replace them.

In the Twentyten theme, it looks like this:

`<div class="nav-previous"><?php next_posts_link( __( '<span class="meta-nav">&larr;</span> Older posts', 'twentyten' ) ); ?></div>`
`<div class="nav-next"><?php previous_posts_link( __( 'Newer posts <span class="meta-nav">&rarr;</span>', 'twentyten' ) ); ?></div>`


You would replace those two lines with this:

`<?php wp_pagenavi(); ?>`

For multipart pages, you would look for code like this:

`<?php wp_link_pages( ... ); ?>`

and replace it with this:

`<?php wp_pagenavi( array( 'type' => 'multipart' ) ); ?>`

Go to *WP-Admin -> Settings -> PageNavi* for configuration.

### Changing the CSS

If you need to configure the CSS style of WP-PageNavi, you can copy the `pagenavi-css.css` file from the plugin directory to your theme's directory and make your modifications there. This way, you won't lose your changes when you update the plugin.

Alternatively, you can uncheck the "Use pagenavi.css?" option from the settings page and add the styles to your theme's style.css file directly.

### Changing Class Names

There are [filters](http://codex.wordpress.org/Glossary#Filter) that can be used to change the default class names that are assigned to page navigation elements.

#### Filters

* `wp_pagenavi_class_pages`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_first`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_previouspostslink`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_extend`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_smaller`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_page`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_current`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_larger`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_nextpostslink`
* `wp_pagenavi_class_last`

#### Filter Usage

`
// Simple Usage - 1 callback per filter
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_previouspostslink', 'theme_pagination_previouspostslink_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_nextpostslink', 'theme_pagination_nextpostslink_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_page', 'theme_pagination_page_class');

function theme_pagination_previouspostslink_class($class_name) {
  return 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--previous';
}

function theme_pagination_nextpostslink_class($class_name) {
  return 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--next';
}

function theme_pagination_page_class($class_name) {
  return 'pagination__current-page';
}


// More Concise Usage - 1 callback for all filters
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_previouspostslink', 'theme_pagination_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_nextpostslink', 'theme_pagination_class');
add_filter('wp_pagenavi_class_page', 'theme_pagination_class');

function theme_pagination_class($class_name) {
  switch($class_name) {
    case 'previouspostslink':
      $class_name = 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--previous';
      break;
    case 'nextpostslink':
      $class_name = 'pagination__control-link pagination__control-link--next';
      break;
    case 'page':
      $class_name = 'pagination__current'
      break;
  }
  return $class_name;
}
`

## Screenshots

1. With Custom Styling
2. Admin - Options Page

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Error on activation: "Parse error: syntax error, unexpected..."

Make sure your host is running PHP 5. The only foolproof way to do this is to add this line to wp-config.php (after the opening `<?php` tag):

`var_dump(PHP_VERSION);`
<br>

### When I go to page 2, I see the same posts as on page 1!

You're using `query_posts()` wrong. See [The Right Way To use query_posts()](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/right-way-to-use-query_posts.html)

### Does PageNavi work with secondary WP_Query instances?

Yes; read [this tutorial](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wpn-2-74.html)

### How do I ignore the options page?

If you are running a multi-language plugin, you will probably want to ignore the strings in the options page.

You can do that like so:

`<?php wp_pagenavi( array( 'options' => PageNavi_Core::$options->get_defaults() ) ); ?>`

## Changelog
### 2.90
* Remove po/mo files from the plugin
* Use translate.wordpress.org to translate the plugin

### 2.89.1
* FIXED: before and after args

### 2.89
* NEW: wrapper_tag option to allow other HTML tag besides DIV and wrapper_class option to allow other class name besides wp-pagenavi. Props @Mahjouba91.

### 2.88
* NEW: Added filters for altering class names. Props @bookwyrm

### 2.87
* NEW: Uses WordPress native uninstall.php

### 2.86
* NEW: Bump to 4.0
* NEW: Added rel=next and rel=previous

### 2.85
* FIXED: "Use pagenavi-css.css" & "Always Show Page Navigation" in the options are not being saved

### 2.84
* FIXED: Updated scb framework to fix scbAdminPage incompatible error

### 2.83
* added 'echo' parameter
* added Estonian and Bengali translations
* updated scbFramework

### 2.82
* fixed prev/next links not appearing in some conditions
* added Hebrew, Georgian and Azerbaijani translations
* updated scbFramework

### 2.81
* require an explicit type; fixes bugs with multipart pages

### 2.80
* support for multi-part pages and user queries
* moved prev/next links before/after first/last links
* [more info](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wpn-2-80.html)

### 2.74 (2011-02-17)
* added 'smaller' and 'larger' classes
* added $query arg to wp_pagenavi()
* updated translations
* [more info](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wpn-2-74.html)

### 2.73 (2010-08-17)
* added $options arg to wp_pagenavi()
* updated scbFramework
* 3 new translations: AL, JA, BR

### 2.72 (2010-04-19)
* fixed first link

### 2.71 (2010-04-18)
* remove conflicting .left and .right from .extend elements
* bundle language files

### 2.70 (2010-04-11)
* better default CSS
* fixed issue with slashed quotes in settings
* let WordPress handle uninstallation
* [more info](http://scribu.net/wordpress/wp-pagenavi/wp-2-70.html)

### 2.61 (2010-02-07)
* fixed: memory limit error

### 2.60 (2010-02-07)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.9
* new: Added "previouspostslink" and "nextpostslink" CSS classes for styling next/previous posts link by Joost de Valk
* new: Added option to include pagenavi-css.css In WP-Admin -> Settings -> PageNavi
* fixed: check for pagenavi-css.css in the child theme, first
* fixed: cleaner options page

### 2.50 (2009-06-01)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.8
* new: Added Larger Page Number Pagination
* new: Added "first", "page" and "last" CSS Name To Link
* fixed: Removed "&#8201;" Entity
* fixed: Uses $_SERVER['PHP_SELF'] With plugin_basename(__FILE__) Instead Of Just $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']

### 2.40 (2008-12-12)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.7 Only
* new: Right To Left Language Support by Kambiz R. Khojasteh
* new: Called pagenavi_textdomain() In pagenavi_init() by Kambiz R. Khojasteh

### 2.31 (2008-07-16)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.6

### 2.30 (2008-06-01)
* new: WP-PageNavi Will Load 'pagenavi-css.css' Inside Your Theme Directory If It Exists. If Not, It Will Just Load The Default 'pagenavi-css.css' By WP-PageNavi
* new: Uses /wp-pagenavi/ Folder Instead Of /pagenavi/
* new: Uses wp-pagenavi.php Instead Of pagenavi.php
* new: Added "wp-pagenavi a:visited" Style In pagenavi-css.css
* new: Added $before And $after Function Arguments To wp_pagenavi();
* fixed: Rearranged CSS Classes In pagenavi-css.css
* fixed: "First" Text Does Not Always Appear If Page 1 Is Not Shown

### 2.20 (2007-10-01)
* new: Supports query_posts(); Variables
* new: Ability To Uninstall WP-PageNavi

### 2.11 (2007-06-01)
* new: Page Navigation Now Is Customizable Via 'WP-Admin -> Options -> PageNavi' And pagenavi-css.css
* new: Default Style Navigation Is Now Boxed Navigation (Similar To Digg.com)
* fixed: Fix For Ultimate Tag Warrior By Oliver Kastler & Stephan (Netconcepts)

### 2.10 (2007-02-01)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.1 Only
* new: Move pagenavi.php To pagenavi Folder

### 2.03 (2006-10-01)
* fixed: Now Compatible With WordPress 2.1

### 2.02 (2006-06-01)
* new: Added Drop Down Menu Style Of Page Navigation

### 2.01 (2006-03-01)
* fixed: Paging Show If There Is Only 1 Page

### 2.00 (2006-01-01)
* new: Compatible With WordPress 2.0
* fixed: Space Issues
